POKEMON RESOLUTE WALKTHROUGH

Outsea Meadow -- Cedar City -- Wave Path -- Undersea Passage -- Pearl Villa -- Windy Path -- Windy Cave -- Solar City(get Snivy in a house, enter Prof.Avery's Lab and get a pokedex -- back to Cedar City(talk to your Mom) -- Pearl Villa again(beat gym leader and get the 1st badge) -- Solar City -- Grass Path(get Hm01-Cut) -- Amethyst Town(get Oshawott in a house, beat gym leader and get the 2nd badge) -- Cloud Path -- Cloud Forest -- Goldenshine Villa -- Peace way(get Drink Card from Luke) -- Ultramarine City(get Vennekin in a house, finish an event beside the gym and then enter gym and get 3rd badge) -- Orchid Path(get Hm06-Rock Smash from Eliza) -- Dianthus Town(get Turtwig in a house and talk to little girl to get Zorua) -- Umber Path(get Hm04-Strength) -- Lithopone City(get Mach Bike in Bike Shop. Beat gym leader to get 4th badge and then enter a house to get Hm02-Fly) -- Lithopone Ferry -- Cermine Isla(finish an event there and Grandma will give you Hm03-Surf, dont forget to get Eevee in the Lily's Apartment, You must sleep in your room if u wana get back to Lithopone Ferry) -- Lithopone Ferry -- back to Cedar City(beat gym leader to get 5th badge) -- Solar City -- Brown Lake -- Cherry Villa(get Item Finder in a house, enter gym and beat Norton) -- back to Solar City(enter Sylon Academy and find 4 keys using Item Finder, the keys are hidden in class room, after get that key, open the last door and u will get a basement key from Bezarrye. Then surf in the waters east of the city, u will find a building named Forest Basement, finish an event there and u will get a Card Key. Then back to Sylon Academy and open the locked door with Card Key and finish an event there, dont forget to take Piplup from the Scientist) -- Cherry Villa(beat Norton and get 6th badge) -- Cedar City -- Bluish Path -- Spearmint Villa(here u can get a Super Rod, Wailmer Pail, Lapras's Egg, Eevee and Eevee-S) -- Celeste Path -- Lividity City(here u can get Chimchar, Mega Rock and Anti Mega. Beat gym leader to get 7th badge) -- Treeshade Path(get Hm-08 Dive) -- Moss Cave -- Chinchilla City(here u can get Chespin. Beat gym leader to get 8th badge then finish an event of Nicole) -- fly to Sky Castle(finish an event there. Dont forget to leave space in your party) -- Chinchilla Town -- get Hm-07 Waterfall From Wind -- Maize Road -- Victory Way -- Sylon League(beat the league) -- Hall Of Fame -- get East Ticket from Elijah -- Lithopone Ferry(use your East Ticket) -- Eastern City(get Tri-Pass from Veronica. Enter the Central Building and finish event there, u will get Coin Case from Elijah. Go North til u find 2 Crustles blocking the road then press A to that Crustle, Prof.Avery will call u and ask u to go to Sky Castle again) -- fly to Sky Casble(put keldeo in your party. Enter a building with Keldeo statue inside and finish the event) -- Eastern City(enter the top right corner building, talk to Receptionist and she'll give u mission)

MISSION 1

go to Sandy Villa(above of Eastern city) and enter Amberyellow Library, talk to Mr.Rock and he will ask u to find a Tool Box in Abandoned Mine. Go there and find it. Talk to Mr.Rock again if u found it. Then back to Eastern City to get the next mission.

MISSION 2

go to Ultramarine City and enter a house that Scientist inside who will ask u to deliver a Microscope, then go to Spearmint Villa and give it to someone in top left corner house. Go back to Ultramarine City and talk again to the Scientist, after that go back to Eastern City for next mission.
MISSION 3

go to Lividity City, talk to Receptionist in Super Market and she will ask u to find 3 yellow, 4 green and 2 red Shard. U can get that Shards in Hidden Cave of Windy Cave, Shale Tunnel and Moss Cave. Talk to her again if u got all of them. Then back to Eastern City for next mission.

MISSION 4

go to Solar City and talk to Alma beside the Pokecenter. Then go to Windy Cave, find Night and he will give u A-332, then talk to Alma again, after that back to Eastern City to get a Tyron Ticket. Go to Subway Station and use your ticket to get Tyron Region.

WELCOME TO TYRON REGION

Marble City(here u can get Froakie. Beat gym leader and get the 1st badge) -- Navel Path -- Heat Passage -- Jade Lake -- Volcano Town(here u can get Tepig. Talk to Autumn in front of Pokecenter. Beat gym leader and get 2nd badge) -- Jade Volcano -- Holy Land -- Peak of Jade Volcano -- Jade Volcano Cave(find Steven) -- back to Volcano Town(enter Heat Passage in botton of city and talk to Hai Qing, he will give u Hm-05 Rock Climb) -- Marble City -- Rumors Forest -- Sappine Path -- Bronze Port(beat gym leader and get 3rd badge, then find Samir in the deep of gym) -- Sappine Path -- High Edge Fall -- Mt.skywall -- Pure Village -- Volcano Path -- Dead Volcano -- Ancient Meadow -- Greenland City(beat gym leader and get 4th badge. Enter to 20 Century Company and talk to Steven, he will give u Magma Stone) -- back to Jade Volcano and find Heatran -- back to Greenland City -- Ancient Meadow 每 Amberyellow Town(meet a man in the library) -- Amberwood Bridge -- Water Wave Path -- Redwood City(enter to Amberyellow Cinema and talk to Lily &amp; Aisha) -- Amberyellow Town(beat gym leader and get 5th badge) -- Light Path -- Snowy Path -- Mugwort Villa(beat gym leader and get 6th badge) -- back to Greenland City -- Darkgreen Path -- Pine Forest -- Pine Path -- Pinearoma Villa(enter to Pine Tower and finish an event there) -- back to Mugwort Villa -- Cloud Meadow -- Rainbow Path(enter to Rainbow Rock and talk to Guardian Of Rainbow) -- Halfleaf City(beat gym leader and get 7th badge. Enter to Halfleaf Cave and talk to Jacob) -- back to Pure Village(enter to Pure Tower and finish an event there, then u will encounter Regigigas) -- back to Freshwind Villa -- Freshair Bay -- Flora Island(beat gym leader and get 8th badge) -- back to Marble City -- Marble Grass Land -- Holy Karst Cave -- Tyron Tower -- Hall Of Fame.

back to Eastern City to get other Mission

MISSION 1

go to Darkgreen Path and enter to Berry Expert's house. Show him a pokemon with move Aromatherapy like Roselia. Then back to Eastern City for next mission.

MISSION 2
go to Halfleaf City and talk to Colress, he will give u Power Seeker. Now go to Pure Village, enter to Pure Tower and find Suicune. Talk to Colress again and then back to Eastern City for next Mission.

MISSION 3

go to Bronze Port and talk to someone in front of Bronze Tunnel. Then enter to Bronze Tunnel, destroy all rock with pokemon who have Explosion as move like Graveler and then finish Meloetta's event, then talk again with some1 in front of cave. After that back to Eastern City to get Johto Ticket. Go to Mt.skywall(above Tyron Tower) and find Wind. Then back to eastern city, enter to Subway Station

WELCOME TO JOHTO REGION

Goldenrod City(beat gym leader and get 1st badge. Go to Underground and talk to Max, then find Bezarrye inside) -- Route 34 -- Ilex Forest -- Azela Town(beat gym leader and get 2nd badge) -- Route 33 -- Union Cave -- Route 32 -- Ruin Of Alph(find Falkner) -- Violet City(beat gym leader and get 3rd badge) -- Route 36 -- Route 37 -- Ecruteak City(find Morty in Burned Tower. Beat gym leader and get 4th badge) -- Route 38 -- Route 39 -- Route 40 -- Olivine City(find Louis in Lighthouse. Talk to Jasnine in Olivine Cafe. Beat gym leader to get 5th badge) -- Cianwood City(beat gym leader and get 6th badge) -- back to Violet City -- Cherrygrove City -- New Bark Town(talk to Prof.Oak) -- back to Ecruteak City -- Route 42 -- Mahogany Town -- Route 43 -- Lake Of Rage(finish an event there) -- back to Mahogany Town(beat gym leader and get 7th badge) -- Route 44 -- Ice Path -- Blackthron City(finish event in Dragon Den. Beat gym leader and get 8th badge) -- Route 45 -- Route 46 -- New Bark Town(talk to Prof.Oak) -- Route 27 -- Route 27 -- Route 26 -- Route 28 -- Silver Cave(beat Red) -- Hall Of Fame.

Now back to Eastern City for final Mission.

FINAL MISSION

talk to Veronica(beside the subway station), then go to Dragon Den and finish event there(u can catch Reshiram/Zekrom). Talk to Veronica again, then go to Radio Tower in Goldenrod City and save the Director. Back to eastern City and report ur mission's result.

Now, go to Cedar City and talk to your Dad in front of statue, he will give u Spiral Ticket. Go to Bronze Port Ferry.

SPIRAL ISLAND

here u can battle with many trainers, like as u do at battle tower.
You can meet Steven here.

INDIGO PLATEAU

After you meet Steven on Spiral Island, you can go to Indigo Plateau, and then you can challenge the elite four of Johto League.

LEGENDARY LOCATION

1. Cobalion: Umber Path(after event in sky castle)
2. Virizion: Cloud Forest(after event in sky castle)
3. Terrakion: Grass Path(after event in sky castle)
4. Rayquaza: Sky Castle(after event in sky castle)
5. Genesect: Sky Castle(after keldeo event in sky castle)
6. Xerneas: Fairy Forest(brown lake)
7. Yveltal: Sky Hill(east of Lithopone Ferry)
8. Zygarde: hiden cave in Mt.mortar
9. Meloetta: mission in bronze tunnel
10. Tornadus: Windy Cave
11. Thundurus: Shale Tunnel
12. Landorus: Sandy Villa(need rock climb)
13. Heatran: event in Tyron
14. Mew: High Edge Fall
15. Mewtwo: Greenland Cave
16. Regigigas: final event in Tyron
17. Reshiram/Zekrom: Dragon Den(final mission)
18. Celebi: Ilex Forest(need Gs ball from mr.pokemon)
19. Ho-oh: Tin Tower(need Rainbow Wing from Guardian of Rainbow)
20. Lugia: Whirl Island(need Silver Wing)
21. Diancie: Crystal Chamber in Spiral Island)
22. Arceus:Cedar City/Pearl Villa.-- Wave Path 每 Defeat the guradian 每 Umber Path/Navel Path 每 Mt. Infinitus
23.Magearna:Carmine Ruins(The password is:SOUL.HEART)

Author: Poketrainer Ifin
Edited by: 1158
