Keep in mind that you can catch a massive variety of pokemon. But also keep in mind:
You don't get Stat EXP at all. Only your badge boosts will make your pokemon stronger than expected.
You can't use revives, max revives, or revival herbs during battles.
There are no X items.
If you hate struggling, here is a guide for the seemingly impossible challenges.

General tips:
Save often before fights. Critical hits can happen, and can actually end a battle. Just don't give up.
Make sure your team is at level 100, you can (and should) catch a variety of pokemon near or at level 100.
Use held items. These will help alot, and your big boss enemies will be using held items too.
Make sure to have healing potions and antidotes, paralyz heals, awakenings, ice heals, and BURN HEALS.
You CAN use revives outside of battle, and you should use them too. Make sure you have spare elixers or eithers for the POkemon League.


Recommended Team for Elite Four and Champion
Suicune: Primarily for Aerodactyl, who is by far, Lance's most dangerous pokemon, and give Suicune a gold berry for additional survivability.
The Aerodactyl is the one pokemon to beware of, as it will outspeed and obliterate teams if left too long.
Primeape or Machamp: Use this to combat the normal types and dark types, but be cautious of Kangaskahn, as it is fast.
Dragonite: Using fly, it can somewhat handle heracross, machamp
Tyranitar, Houndoom, or Umbreon: These dark types can handle Will and most of Karen's team, but be careful with.
A Toxic User
A thunder wave user/fire type/psychic type/ground type for electric types.

Elixers, ethers, berries, various held items, revives, andidotes, paralyze heals, awakenings, and potions

Other reccommendations:
Rhydon, Steelix, or Donphan for Aerodactyl, and OHKO the aerodactyl.
Hitmons and Poliwrath for Normal Types.
Flying types for heracross, and a bulky yet quick psychic type for Machamp
Mint berries for espeon and jolteon. Their sing attack has 70 accuracy, and comes from a Gen 6 event.(Sing Eevee)
You could access all the cities prior to fighting any gym leader, and you don't have to fight in a set order either.


Will has four PSYCHIC MAINs: These are pokemon that are the highest levels, and uses 2 healing items, either max potions or full restores.
Koga has two mains: Muk and Crobat. Shuckle is a notorious sleep talk user though, so beware.
Bruno's Main: Machamp
Karen's Main: Umbreon
Lance's Three Mains: Kingdra, Tyranitar, and Dragonite

Good luck, the Pokemon League is the hardest part of the game due to fighting 30 different pokemon.

KANTO POST GAME:
This is much easier to deal with than the Pokemon League, since you have freedom to shuffle your party. Keep in mind that this makes
recommendation to minimize rage inducing struggling. You are free to use whatever suits your fancy.

BROCK: Cut required
Make sure you have leftovers for suicune, and use it primarily for his aerodactyl before using it on anything else. And be prepared for shuckle.

MISTY: Surf Required, Rival fight required
Do not allow Vaporeon to set up too many growths, get rid of it fast, or you will find yourself swept.
Jolteon has the best chance against starmie, so keep it healthy.

LT. SURGE: Surf and Cut required
Steelix walls everyone except raichu, electabuzz, and slowbro, but bring a mint berry for jolteon, as you cannot afford to waste turns.

ERIKA: Surf and cut required
Bring lots of mint berries, and fast fire types. Don't be too frustrated if you lose this one. Kingdra does well against many foes.

JANINE:
A speedy jolteon can somewhat handle tentacruel, but a female jolteon handles it the best, avoiding attract. Be cautious of Umbreon and Chansey.

SABRINA:
If you use dark types, make sure to have a mint berry for Espeon, a pokemon that counters primeape, and a pokemon that counters miltank.
A mint berry and speedy fire type can counter jynx, or mint berry arcanine/entei with extremespeed.

BLAINE: Surf required
Suicune, though be especially careful with Moltres, as its offense is the most devastating of Blaine's team.
Be careful with Kangaskhan, as it is fast, bulky, and strong, and has sleep talk.

BLUE:
This one is not so straightfoward, as there are many factors:
Mint Berry Steelix vs Jolteon
Something to counter Machamp
Something to counter Kingdra
Something to counter Houndoom
Something to counter Tauros (much harder than it sounds, due to its speed and double edge)
His Mew is fast, bulky, and has perfect coverage, with psychic, submission, and shadow ball, with miracle berry and softboiled to keep it alive.

RED: Smoke ball required for really deadly wild mons, cut, surf, waterfall, and flash for Mt. SILVER.
Mint berry dark type for espeon
Lapras for Dragonite, with Ice Beam and nevermelt ice. (waterfall and surf required)
Steelix For Raikou, but bring leftovers
Celebi is very tricky to counter, due to its speed and bulk, as well as ancientpower hurting many of its usual counters, and psychic hurting heracross and poison types.
The closest counter to Celebi is Skarmory, just pray for no ancient power boost or special drops. Cut required. Forretress explosion works too.
Jolteon for Suicune, though it may also take lapras to bring this bulky tank down. (flash required)
Machamp for Snorlax (bring a przcureberry in case of body slam hax, and pray that cross chop doesn't miss, because if this thing CURSES enough...)

Indigo Plateau Final Rival Battle:

If you believe that ubers is the way to go, knock yourself out. But bring these counters if you still have trouble.

Zapdos vs Lugia, but take this thing down fast, with a magnet
Rhydon vs Ho-Oh, with rock slide... hard stone or ice berry
Heracross vs Mew, this one doesn't have psychic, but if it gets swords dance off, it will sweep your team
Skarmory vs Celebi,
Heracross vs snorlax, with przcure berry

Mewtwo is by far the hardest pokemon in the game to counter: its submission destroys blissey, tyranitar, houndoom, umbreon, and does serious damage to snorlax.
It is best to have snorlax, and only snorlax self-destruct, or have a mewtwo with shadow ball. Don't waste a turn attempting to use status, or you will lose.

SHF:
You actually want to win this easter egg one?
There is one pokemon that is almost impossible to take out normally without losing almost an entire team,
unless you are prepared to self-destruct with snorlax.
I'd reccommend getting wobbuffet, and just destiny bonding it. You know that one pokemon.
If you can, try toxic and protecting with shuckle and leftovers if you don't want to lose a pokemon. 
Heal up when necessary, and don't let rollout traumatize you like whitney's.

Get mint berry steelix for Zapdos, and possibly gengar, or use a psychic type for gengar with a mint berry
Jolteon for Starmie
You will have to attempt to stall out umbreon. Toxic is the best weapon against it, and keep healing.
Use a good fighting type for Tyranitar